# Breakfast-cuisine-and-users-analysis
# Title:
Join for Breakfast with Efood 
Author:
Mariam Kandilari
## Project File Structure:
- **Data:** Storage of project data and logging.
- In root directory put all your scripts (.py or .ipynb) into folders like:
efood2022.ipynb
efood-Breakfast.ipynb
analysis efood.ipynb
presentations / Join for Breakfast with Efood (1).pdf
## Install
here you specify the libraries and their versions you have to install in order to run the scripts in a environment.yml file.
to install the environment:
- git clone this repo
- Set up the provided Anaconda virtual environment which includes the needed packages with the right versions: conda env create -f environment.yml
- Activate the jobcloud environment: conda activate enviroment
- Run jupyter notebook / lab and open the provided notebooks.
## Project description
efood is interested in identifying specific patterns from their users' transactions. 
There is a hypothesis that needs testing, according to which certain behavioral habits 
and purchasing trends can signal/predict those users during the initial period of their customer journey.
We would like to be able to capture those signals and identify those users as early as possible.
## Goals
Segment existing customers besed on RFM analysis and categorize them by their Frequency and Monetary Value
### Data set description
Data set consisted of 552639 order transactions.
Rows of Dataset: 534270
Columns of Dataset: 7
order_id: unique identification of orders
order_timestamp	: date of order
user_id: unique identification of a user
city: the city of the order
cuisine: cuisine type of an order
amount: how much does an order cost
paid_cash: if payment is cash or not
### Data exploration
(main)
- to read cleaning, use original data 'Assessment exercise dataset - orders.csv'
### Data cleaning
order_timestamp converted to datetime element
Drop NaN values(not existing NaNs)
#### Conclusions
-Customers were divided to five classes: Champions,High value Customer,Medium Value Customer,Has Potential,Lost Customers
-Lost Customers appear only in the start of the dataset, and then become inactive
-Champions have great metrics overall
-What makes a good customer is a lot of orders and his frequency
-Monetary Value is highly correlated with Frequency of orders
-The 50% of the revenue is generated by the 2 top classes (Champions and High value Customer)
-Market basket analysis shows that champions are more likely to buy Italian,Street Food and Breakfast
-Potentials are more likely to buy in sequence Breakfast and Meat
-Most orders by all classes were made from 20:00 to 22:00. Orders in the early morning are the lowest. Local peak in 10.00 and 11.00
-Most orders are during Saturday-Sunday
#### presentation folder
Join for Breakfast with Efood (1).pdf
